Add Python Solution and Explanation for Stuck in a Rut (Bronze) (#1982)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-1061.mdx

---
id: usaco-1061
source: USACO Bronze 2020 December
title: Stuck in a Rut
author: Ryan Chou
---

[Official Analysis (C++ and Java)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_dec20.html)

> ## Explanation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Solution
```

Reviewer: i think this can be an optional change, its just that the rest of them say solution

> Since $x, y \leq 10^9$, we can't simulate each time period. Instead, we should look for signs which allow two cows to intersect. 

Reviewer 2: Optional
```suggestion
Since $x, y \leq 10^9$, we can't simulate each time period. Instead, try to identify when pairs of cows intersect. 
```

One important observation is that cows can't move backwards, so the only way for two cows to collide is if $n[x] > e[x] $ and $n[y] < e[y]$. 

This ensures that the cows are positioned like this:

![](USACO-dec20-stuckinarut-bronze/intersection_example.png)

> From here, we can track which cows will collide and how much grass they'll eat.

Reviewer 2: This seems a bit too vague.

I'd elaborate more on
1) Sorting (so the first stoppings occur first)
2) An intersection that would have occurred may fail to occur because a cow is stopped early. Sorting resolves this because...

Author: 👍

Author: > An intersection that would have occurred may fail to occur because a cow is stopped early. Sorting resolves this because...
We still have to check if any of the cows were stopped before that, since we're scanning every pair of cows and checking if they collide.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$
<LanguageSection>
<PySection>
  
```py
n = int(input())
ncows = []
ecows = []

for i in range(n):
	dir, x, y = input().split()
	# Also append i since we have to return them
	# in the same order they were given to us.
	if dir == 'N':
		ncows.append((int(x), int(y), i))

> 	else:

Reviewer 3: honestly would prefer if you made this `elif dir == 'E':` but that i don't really care

Author: yeah i guess it would be better for beginners

		ecows.append((int(x), int(y), i))

# Sort north cows by x coordinates.
ncows.sort()
# Sort east cows by y coordinates.

> ecows.sort(key = lambda cow: cow[1])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ecows.sort(key=lambda cow: cow[1])
```
pep 8 says no spaces for default arguments

Author: o

# Stores times which cows stop.
stoppin = [None] * n
# Checking every combination of cows.
for ncow in ncows:
	for ecow in ecows:
		"""

> 		The north cows can't move down, and east cows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		The north cows can't move down and east cows
```

> 		can't move backwards, so a north cow's x coord must

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		can't move backwards, so a north cow's x coordinate must
```

Reviewer: sometimes you can shorten, but i think typing out the full word is better here (change for the rest as well)

Author: 👍

		be less than an east cow's x coordinate, and an north 
		cow's y coordinate must be less than an east cow's y coordinate
		for them to collide.

> 		"""

Reviewer 3: these comments are very pog

		if ncow[0] > ecow[0] and ncow[1] < ecow[1]:
			# Distance they travel.
			ntrav = ecow[1] - ncow[1]
			etrav = ncow[0] - ecow[0]

			"""
			If the north cow gets to the meeting place before

> 			the east cow, and the east cow has not been stopped

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			the east cow and the east cow has not been stopped
```

---
id: usaco-1061
source: USACO Bronze 2020 December
title: Stuck in a Rut
author: Ryan Chou
---

[Official Analysis (C++ and Java)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_dec20.html)

## Explanation

Since $x, y \leq 10^9$, we can't simulate each time period. Instead, we should look for signs which allow two cows to intersect. 

One important observation is that cows can't move backwards, so the only way for two cows to collide is if $n[x] > e[x] $ and $n[y] < e[y]$. 

This ensures that the cows are positioned like this:

> ![](solutions/USACO-dec20-stuckinarut-bronze/intersection_example.png)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
![](USACO-dec20-stuckinarut-bronze/intersection_example.png)
```
i think this path will work? haven't checked though

Author: both of them work, but adding `solutions/` makes it show up in the github file preview as well.

Reviewer 4: does it? i see this
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/63619830/126858340-e98c4792-c07b-4753-b9f4-50ad9a0571a6.png)

Author: 👍 i changed the file path and it shows up on github preview. (i have no idea where how i saw the image with the solutions/)

From here, we can track which cows will collide and how much grass they'll eat.

> ## Implementation

Reviewer 4: add time complexity

<LanguageSection>
<PySection>
  
```py
n = int(input())
ncows = []
ecows = []

for i in range(n):

> 	dir, x, y = map(str, input().split())

Reviewer 4: isn't input() already returning a string?

title: Stuck in a Rut
author: Ryan Chou
---

[Official Analysis (C++ and Java)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob3_bronze_dec20.html)

## Explanation

Since $x, y \leq 10^9$, we can't simulate each time period. Instead, we should look for signs which allow two cows to intersect. 

One important observation is that cows can't move backwards, so the only way for two cows to collide is if $n[x] > e[x] $ and $n[y] < e[y]$. 

This ensures that the cows are positioned like this:

![](USACO-dec20-stuckinarut-bronze/intersection_example.png)

From here, we can track which cows will collide and how much grass they'll eat.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}(N^2)$
<LanguageSection>
<PySection>
  
```py
n = int(input())
ncows = []
ecows = []

for i in range(n):
	dir, x, y = input().split()
	# Also append i since we have to return them
	# in the same order they were given to us.
	if dir == 'N':
		ncows.append((int(x), int(y), i))
	else:
		ecows.append((int(x), int(y), i))

# Sort north cows by x coordinates.
ncows.sort()
# Sort east cows by y coordinates.
ecows.sort(key = lambda cow: cow[1])

# Stores times which cows stop.
stoppin = [None] * n

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

# Checking every combination of cows.
for ncow in ncows:
	for ecow in ecows:
		"""
		The north cows can't move down, and east cows
		can't move backwards, so a north cow's x coord must
		be less than an east cow's x coord, and an north 
		cow's y coord must be less than an east cow's y coord
		for them to collide.
		"""
		if ncow[0] > ecow[0] and ncow[1] < ecow[1]:
			# Distance they travel.
			ntrav = ecow[1] - ncow[1]
			etrav = ncow[0] - ecow[0]

			"""
			If the north cow gets to the meeting place before
			the east cow, and the east cow has not been stopped
			already
			"""
			if ntrav < etrav and stoppin[ecow[2]] == None:
				"""
				then we can set the east cow's stopping point.
				We only save the x coordinate because the y coord 
				stays constant.
				"""
				stoppin[ecow[2]] = ncow[0]

			# If the east cow gets there before, then we can save the 
			# north cow's position.
			if ntrav > etrav and stoppin[ecow[2]] == None:
				stoppin[ncow[2]] = ecow[1]
				# We iterate per north cow, so we can move on to the
				# next north cow if this cow doesn't move anymore.
				break

# Tracks how much they eat.
eat = [-1] * n

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
